docs/explanation.md, before:

# Concepts and Design

## Authentication Flow

The ADP API Client uses the OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials flow with certificate-based authentication. This flow is designed for server-to-server communication where the application acts on its own behalf.

### Process

1. The client presents its credentials (client ID and secret) along with client certificate
2. The ADP authentication service validates the certificate and credentials
3. An access token is issued with a specific validity period
4. The client uses this token to make API requests
5. When the token approaches expiration, it's automatically refreshed

## Credential Loading

The `AdpCredentials` object holds all API credentials, and supports loading from environment variables

```python
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from adpapi.client import AdpCredentials

creds = AdpCredentials.from_env()
```

> *NOTE*: `.from_env` expects the following environment variables
> - `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET`, mandatory, link to the API project
> - `CERT_PATH` and `KEY_PATH`, optional, default to `certificate.pem` and `adp.key`, respectively if not provided

## `call_endpoint` vs `call_rest_endpoint`

The client exposes two methods that serve different purposes:

**`call_endpoint`** — for paginated OData endpoints. Use this when you want to list or search records. It automatically handles `$top`/`$skip` pagination and supports `$select` and `$filter` query parameters.

**`call_rest_endpoint`** — for direct resource lookups. Use this when you already know the resource identifier and want to fetch it by ID. It supports path parameter templates (e.g. `/hr/v2/workers/{associateOID}`) and can batch-fetch a list of IDs in a single call.

## OData Filtering

The ADP API uses OData query syntax for filtering results. The `FilterExpression` class provides a Pythonic way to build these filters:

::: adpapi.odata_filters.FilterExpression

## Token Lifecycle

The client automatically manages token refresh. It tracks token expiration and refreshes the token with a 5-minute buffer before actual expiration to prevent failed requests.

## Error Handling

The client includes built-in retry logic for transient failures using exponential backoff. This helps handle temporary network issues gracefully.

## Logging

Comprehensive logging is available at multiple levels (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR) to help with troubleshooting:

::: adpapi.logger.configure_logging

## Session Management

The `ApiSession` dataclass manages HTTP sessions, retry logic, and authentication headers. It encapsulates:

- A `requests.Session` object for connection pooling
- Client certificate information for SSL/TLS authentication
- A callback function for dynamic header generation (useful for token refresh)
- Request timeout handling

::: adpapi.sessions.ApiSession

Commit message:

Updated docs with parallelism instructions

docs/explanation.md, after:

# Concepts and Design

## Authentication Flow

The ADP API Client uses the OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials flow with certificate-based authentication. This flow is designed for server-to-server communication where the application acts on its own behalf.

### Process

1. The client presents its credentials (client ID and secret) along with client certificate
2. The ADP authentication service validates the certificate and credentials
3. An access token is issued with a specific validity period
4. The client uses this token to make API requests
5. When the token approaches expiration, it's automatically refreshed

## Credential Loading

The `AdpCredentials` object holds all API credentials, and supports loading from environment variables

```python
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from adpapi.client import AdpCredentials

creds = AdpCredentials.from_env()
```

> *NOTE*: `.from_env` expects the following environment variables
> - `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET`, mandatory, link to the API project
> - `CERT_PATH` and `KEY_PATH`, optional, default to `certificate.pem` and `adp.key`, respectively if not provided

## `call_endpoint` vs `call_rest_endpoint`

The client exposes two methods that serve different purposes:

**`call_endpoint`** — for paginated OData endpoints. Use this when you want to list or search records. It automatically handles `$top`/`$skip` pagination and supports `$select` and `$filter` query parameters.

**`call_rest_endpoint`** — for direct resource lookups. Use this when you already know the resource identifier and want to fetch it by ID. It supports path parameter templates (e.g. `/hr/v2/workers/{associateOID}`) and can batch-fetch a list of IDs in a single call.

## Parallel Batch Requests

`call_rest_endpoint` supports concurrent fetching through the `max_workers` parameter. Under the hood, this uses Python's `concurrent.futures.ThreadPoolExecutor` to dispatch multiple HTTP requests simultaneously.

### Why threads?

API calls are I/O-bound (most time is spent waiting for network responses), so Python's threading model works well here despite the GIL. Each thread simply waits for its own HTTP response, allowing many requests to be in-flight at once.

### Token safety

Before dispatching the thread pool, `call_rest_endpoint` calls `_ensure_valid_token()` once. This guarantees that all threads share the same fresh token and avoids race conditions from multiple threads trying to refresh simultaneously.

### Performance characteristics

Benchmarks with real ADP API calls show:

| Workers | 10 IDs | 50 IDs |
|---|---|---|
| 1 (sequential) | ~11s | ~44s |
| 10 (parallel) | ~4s | ~8s |

Scaling beyond 10 workers typically offers diminishing returns because the bottleneck shifts to ADP server processing time and rate limits.

## OData Filtering

The ADP API uses OData query syntax for filtering results. The `FilterExpression` class provides a Pythonic way to build these filters:

::: adpapi.odata_filters.FilterExpression

## Token Lifecycle

The client automatically manages token refresh. It tracks token expiration and refreshes the token with a 5-minute buffer before actual expiration to prevent failed requests.

## Error Handling

The client includes built-in retry logic for transient failures using exponential backoff. This helps handle temporary network issues gracefully.

## Logging

Comprehensive logging is available at multiple levels (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR) to help with troubleshooting:

::: adpapi.logger.configure_logging

## Session Management

The `ApiSession` dataclass manages HTTP sessions, retry logic, and authentication headers. It encapsulates:

- A `requests.Session` object for connection pooling
- Client certificate information for SSL/TLS authentication
- A callback function for dynamic header generation (useful for token refresh)
- Request timeout handling

::: adpapi.sessions.ApiSession
